He wasn't the most extraordinary among the apostles.
For example, he didn't walk on water.
He didn't receive the keys to the kingdom.
He wasn't one of the sons of thunder.
He didn't see the transfiguration.
He didn't write a Bible book.
In fact, all together, he's only mentioned 12 times in the Scriptures.
And that's mostly when the list of all the apostles is given.
Who are we talking about?
That would be Andrew.
See, Andrew was best known as the brother of Peter.
That's what he was famous for, primarily.
Peter's mentioned some 150 times in the Scripture.
And it seems that Peter was always in the limelight,
whereas Andrew always seemed to be in the shadows.
Peter was extraordinary.
Andrew was ordinary.
Like Andrew, most of us view ourselves as just ordinary.
We're not the valovictorian.
We're not the greatest speaker.
We're not miscongeniality.
We're just in the shadows.
But is that how Jehovah sees us?
Is that how he saw Andrew?
Let's look at Andrew the person for just a minute.
Open your Bibles if you would to John chapter 1, please.
John chapter 1.
And if you begin just following along with me, verse 35,
we see that Andrew was a disciple of John the baptizer.
And one day when he was with John the baptizer,
John said, see the Lamb of God.
What is it that Andrew did immediately?
He immediately left following John to follow Jesus.
Now, we don't have a lot of time for this talk.
But what did Jehovah see in Andrew at that point?
He must have seen that Andrew wanted to draw close to God.
And that he would be adaptable and that he would be willing to change
in order to be able to draw closer to Jehovah and do his will.
Jehovah must have loved Andrew for that attitude.
If you follow along in verse 38 and 39,
notice that it says,
Jesus turned and saw them following him.
And do you notice what Jesus said?
He said, what are you looking for?
Now, how did Andrew respond to that?
Did Andrew say, well, you know, Lord,
I'd like to have a better assignment,
something that brings a little prestige, maybe some accolades.
And along with that, if I had a bigger room, one with a view.
But he didn't.
What he said was, Lord, where are you staying?
And the Bible shows us that Andrew then went with Jesus
and stayed with him till about four o'clock in the afternoon.
Now, that was interesting because he was really showing
that he valued spiritual things over the mundane things.
But then, after that time, verse 40 and 41,
it says, Andrew ran to find his brother Peter.
And he said five words.
Five words that would change their lives forever.
We have found the Messiah.
Now, how did Andrew know that?
Well, Andrew must have been a man who loved God's Word.
He must have been familiar with it.
And so in that time that he was with Jesus,
he could take what he'd read in the scriptures
and compare them with the man in front of him.
And he came to that conclusion.
He was a spiritual man.
He loved God's Word.
And as a result of his zeal,
he brought his brother Peter to Jesus.
Well, now, that's a little bit about what we know about Andrew,
the person.
What about Andrew, the Apostle?
Well, let's go over to John chapter 6 now.
John chapter 6.
And we look at 440 and 41.
Well, excuse me, John chapter 6 verses 5 through 9.
And here we see a large crowd of people now
that are gathering to see Jesus.
And Jesus wants to feed them.
You remember the account.
And so he says to fill up one feed these people.
Philip says, Lord, that's impossible.
200 didn't area.
I wouldn't feed them all.
So there was probably over 5,000 people there.
But now while he,
Philip is talking to Jesus trying to reason with him,
what is Andrew doing?
Andrew goes through the crowd.
He finds a little boy that has some fish and some bread.
And he brings that little child to Jesus.
Now, did Andrew have any idea what Jesus was going to do?
He couldn't have known.
There's no way he could have known.
But he must have thought.
He must have seen enough to know that Jesus could do something.
And of course he did.
But what was the lesson?
Well, while Philip saw the problem,
Andrew was looking for a solution.
Then you may notice again that as usual,
Andrew is bringing people to Jesus.
Just as a side point,
what do you think that little boy
would be talking about when he became my age?
Yeah, after that miracle he saw.
He must have really been an impactful one.
Now, let's go to John chapter 12.
John chapter 12.
And look down at verse 20 through 22.
Because now we have a group of Greeks
who've come to worship at the festival.
And they approach Philip.
And what do they want to do?
They want to see Jesus.
What does Philip do?
Philip goes to Andrew.
What does Andrew do?
Andrew takes Philip and they go to Jesus.
Now, two things.
Number one, Andrew recognized the channel.
He didn't try to circumvent it.
He didn't try to make the decision.
He recognized the channel.
And secondly, Andrew was a friend.
Because now he would be a mentor
to Philip and teach him to go to the channel as well.
Well, the Bible doesn't say much about Andrew.
But we can see that Andrew didn't think it was all about him.
He always had the desire to help others.
So, in this brief discussion,
is there anything really ordinary about Andrew?
Not in Joe's eyes.
So, while it's true,
Andrew never walked on water.
He never wrote a Bible book.
He also never denied Christ.
He never got his mom to ask for special favors.
He was never known for being a doubting Andrew.
And he never ever was called Satan.
He was a force for good for those around him.
Now, the lessons were the class.
Be adaptable.
Be adaptable to the leanings of Jehovah's organization,
even if you don't fully understand them.
Number two, don't get tripped up by the desire for the mundane things.
Remember the question that Jesus asked Andrew,
what are you looking for?
That's a good reset question for all of us from time to time.
What are we looking for?
Number three, remember that Jehovah is not limited
in how he can work out problems.
Give him the chance to show what he can do for you.
And you may find the answer comes in some very unexpected ways.
And finally, in your assignment,
don't be quick to pass over this seemingly ordinary people.
Look for the Andrews.
They're in all the congregations.
They're in all the Bethels through like the hidden gems
that are all around us.
Acknowledge them, encourage them,
see what they're contributing,
and say something about it.
And those hidden gems will begin to come out of the shadows
and they will shine in the light of appreciation.
So in the days to come, be a steady force for good,
show loving kindness to all.
Give Jehovah your best,
and give the friends your best,
and give it with love.
And you will never ever be in the shadow in Jehovah's eyes.